[docs] Update development build docs (#19703)
expo/expo: docs/pages/development/create-development-builds.mdx

import { Tab, Tabs } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

Development builds can be created with [EAS Build](/build/introduction/) or locally on your computer if you have Xcode and Android Studio. In the following sections, you will find information on how to create a development build and then install them on an emulator/simulator or a physical device to continue developing your app.

## Prerequisites

You need to initialize your project with Expo. If you still need to do so, see the [initializing steps](/get-started/create-a-new-app/#initializing-the-project) if you are starting a new project.

## Install expo-dev-client

To initialize a development build, you need to install the `expo-dev-client` library in your project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install expo-dev-client']} />

## Build with EAS

We recommend EAS Build to manage your native projects. It allows a smooth experience, especially if you do not have experience with Xcode and Android studio builds or have them installed locally on your computer.

### Configure the project

To get started, you need to configure your project for EAS Build by running the command:

> <Terminal cmd={['$ eas build:configure']} />

Reviewer: This is no longer required, eas build will create for you if you don't have it already

> If you have not installed EAS CLI yet, we recommend to install it as global npm dependency by running `npm install -g eas-cli`.

This command will create an [**eas.json**](https://docs.expo.dev/build/eas-json/) file. If you have an existing **eas.json** that does not have a `"development"` profile, modify it to add the profile as shown below:

> ```json eas.json

Reviewer: What do you think about consolidating the simulator config here

Author: I think it will be a good step in the user journey. I think most users would want to build for simulator or an APK before a device. I'll update this section.

### Configure the project

To get started, you need to configure your project for EAS Build by running the command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build:configure']} />

> If you have not installed EAS CLI yet, we recommend to install it as global npm dependency by running `npm install -g eas-cli`.

This command will create an [**eas.json**](https://docs.expo.dev/build/eas-json/) file. If you have an existing **eas.json** that does not have a `"development"` profile, modify it to add the profile as shown below:

```json eas.json
{
  "builds": {
    "development": {
      "developmentClient": true,
      "distribution": "internal"
    }
  }
}
```

The `"development"` profile sets the following options:

- [`developmentClient`](/build-reference/eas-json/#developmentclient) to `true` to create a Debug build. This allows the `expo-dev-client` library to choose the update to load in your app and provide tools to help you develop it. It also generates a build artifact that you can install on a device or emulator/simulator.
- [`distribution`](/build-reference/eas-json/#distribution) to `"internal"` makes the build ready for internal distribution.

> > iOS builds with a `developmentClient` should always be distributed as `"internal"`. If you are distributing for TestFlight, you have to set the distribution to `"store"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> iOS builds where `developmentClient` is set to `true` on the build profile should always be distributed as `"internal"`. If you are distributing for TestFlight, you have to set the distribution to `"store"`.
```

```json eas.json
{
  "builds": {
    "development-simulator": {
      "developmentClient": true,
      "distribution": "internal",
      "ios": {
        "simulator": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Then, run the following command to create the development build on an iOS simulator:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build --profile development-simulator --platform ios']} />

> Make sure to use that profile name as the argument for the `--profile` flag in the above command.

After the build is complete, go to the build page in the [Expo dashboard](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/builds) and click the **Download** button.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Click the download button to download the build for iOS simulator."
  src="/static/images/dev-client/ios-build.jpg"
  style={{ maxWidth: 700 }}
/>

You can now install the it on an iOS simulator:

- Open the **.tar.gz** file to extract it. You will now have a **.app** file, for example, **myapp.app**.
- Drag the **.app** file into the iOS simulator. When you see it appear on the simulator home screen, tap on it to run it.

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Build locally with Android Studio and Xcode

> If you are comfortable setting up or have access to Android, Xcode, and related dependencies, you can build and distribute your project the same as any other Android or iOS app. You will still need to [install `expo-dev-client`](#install-expo-dev-client) in your project.

Reviewer 2: At least a few times, we've had folks who have gone to this step when they would have been just fine/ really should have used EAS, so would like to have a stronger reason as to why this road should be taken (so folks who don't need it are strongly disincentivized).

Maybe it's something like, "If you need to debug native code, you can build your project the same..." with an Info blurb reminding folks that they usually don't need to do this.

Author: I did add the reasons at the end of the section:

```
We do not recommend modifying these directories directly, especially when creating a development build with EAS Build. However, you can use this method when you:

- Want to debug the native code directly
- You are managing your own native projects
```

Do you think leading with them will be better rather than having them at the end of this section as we don't want folks to use this route?

Reviewer 2: I think if we have this here, we really need to lead with "you shouldn't need this, but...". The current lead-in almost dares folks to try it ("Xcode? Oh yeah, I'm so good at that, let's do this!")

Which leads me to... do we really need this section at all? We already have a Bare Workflow guide page for dev builds; the only ground not covered here is that the bare workflow guide assumes you're adding dev builds to a vanilla RN app instead of an Expo app where you ran `prebuild` first.

`npx expo run` is [already covered in the Expo CLI section](https://www.loom.com/share/ca4c161aaaf74e9fb12f78e21a11170a) and has good verbiage for describing why most folks don't need this. I'm not aware of "but will development builds really work with `npx expo run`?" being a burning question, and nothing implies it will not work with it, so IMO you could delete this section entirely.
